In Vietnamese, **adjectives come after nouns**, and they are often placed at the end of a phrase. This is unlike English where adjectives are placed before a noun. For example, “tall man” would literally translate to “man tall” in Vietnamese. Likewise, “women beautiful” or “shirt red” or “head painful”.
## Examples of Vietnamese Adjectives

### A tall man – Người đàn ông cao

Notice that the word for tall (_cao_) is placed after the noun for man (_đàn ông_, which is a compound word).

Người  đàn ông cao
person man -   tall

Also notice the strange pronoun/indefinite article _[người](https://vietnamdaily.ca/language/what-does-nguoi-mean-in-vietnamese/)_. The word literally translates to people, however, in this sentence, it serves as a placeholder for an indefinite article like the English (“a”).

### A beautiful women – Người phụ nữ đẹp

This phrase has the same construction as “a tall man”, in which the adjective _đẹp_ (which means [beautiful](https://vietnamdaily.ca/language/dep-qua-how-to-say-beautiful-in-vietnamese/)) comes after the noun _phụ nữ_, which means female (and like _đàn ông_, it is a compound word).

Người  phụ nữ đẹp 
person female beautiful

Notice also the strange word _[người](http://ngoui/)_ which somewhat serves as an indefinite article for people.

### Modifier “lắm”: The cafe is very faraway – Khách sạn xa lắm

Khách sạn xa  lắm
Hotel     far very

The adjective _xa_ (far) comes after the noun _Khách sạn_ (hotel, which is a compound word).

Notice also that the modifier “very” (_lắm_) comes after the adjective “far” (_xa_). According to this ordering, expressions like “very big” or “very far” are literally ordered as “big very” and “far very”. This ordering isn’t a hard-and-fast rule, but it is the most common — sometimes modifiers can precede the adjective (which we discuss next).

### Modifier “lắm”: A very tall man – Người đàn ông cao lắm

The modifier _lắm_ (very) comes after the adjective _cao_ (tall) which itself comes after the noun _đàn ông_ (man).

Người  đàn ông cao  lắm
person man     tall very

However, it isn’t a universal rural that modifiers must follow an adjective. We could also write _người đàn ông rất cao_ in which case the modifier _rất_ (which means “very”) precedes the adjective _cao_.

Người  đàn ông rất  cao 
person man     very tall

This modifier _rất_ is considered more literary, and isn’t commonly used in speech. Therefore, **it is better to learn the modifier _lắm_** and its construction.

### Colours: I want the red shirt – Tôi muốn một chiếc áo sơ mi đỏ

When colours are used as an adjective, they are placed after the noun. For example, “**red** shirt” is “áo sơ mi **đỏ**“, in which _đỏ_ (red) comes after the noun _áo sơ mi_ (which means shirt, and is a compound word; read more about _áo_ [here](https://vietnamdaily.ca/language/what-does-quan-mean-in-vietnamese/)).

Tôi muốn một chiếc       áo  sơ mi đỏ
I   want a  (article of) top shirt red

In this example, notice the strange word _chiếc_ serves as something like “this/that” or a “grouping word” — which includes expressions like “piece of” , “bunch of”, “article of clothing”, “bit of”, etc.

In English, these grouping-words are usually optional, or they are used to emphasize a small or large quantity. In Vietnamese, grouping words like _chiếc_ are very common and sentences sounds unnatural without them — although they are effectively optionally. For articles of clothing, _chiếc_ roughly translates to “article of”, but it has many more uses beyond clothing.

### This/that: This bicycle is expensive – Chiếc xe đạp này đắt

Notice that the adjective _đắt_ (expensive) comes after the noun _xe đạp_ (which means bicycle, and is a compound word). Note that _[xe](https://vietnamdaily.ca/language/what-does-xe-om-mean-in-vietnamese/)_ literally means vehicle.

Chiếc        xe      đạp      này  đắt
(An item of) vehicle bicycle  this expensive

Notice the word for “this” (_này_) is placed _after_ the noun for bicycle (_xe đạp_), and before the adjective for expensive (_đắt_), unlike in English. Therefore, “this bicycle” has a literally ordering of “bicycle this”.

Finally, notice the omnipresent word _chiếc_ which seems superfluous when literally translated into English (“an item of” or “a unit of”), but it is necessary in Vietnamese.

### I have a headache – tôi bị đau đầu

In Vietnamese, one does not literally “have” a headache, one “is” a headache. In other words, the verb “to be” should be used, rather than the verb “to have” when talking about pain and hurting.

Tôi bị đau     đầu
I   am hurting cranially 

Therefore, the corresponding phrase _tôi bị **đau** đầu_ literally translates to “I am **hurting** cranially”.

Be careful, _đau_ may translate to “head”, like a noun, but in Vietnamese it is acting like an adverb. In fact, adverbs and nouns often have the same spelling (i.e, cranium and cranially are the same). Therefore, the adverb _đầu_ (head/cranially) occurs after the verb for hurting/pain (_đau_).

## Multiple Adjectives in Vietnamese

In Vietnamese, if you want to combine multiple adjectives, you simply add them after the noun. Their order doesn’t matter (unlike in English), except that the first adjective is considered to have more emphasis.

For example, “**small brown** dog” is “chú chó **nhỏ màu nâu**“, but could be “chú chó màu nâu nhỏ”.

In contrast, in English, there are complex rules for which adjective must come first, e.g., “small brown dog” vs “brown small dog”: the former is correct, while the latter sounds unnatural. This doesn’t matter in Vietnamese.

chú chó nhỏ   màu   nâu
dog     small brown colour

> **RELATED**: [How to say “bad dog” in Vietnamese?](https://vietnamdaily.ca/language/how-do-you-say-bad-dog-in-vietnamese/)

## Comparatives: How to say “as good as” in Vietnamese?

To make comparative statements like “as good as” or “as big as” is very simple in Vietnamese: one adds the word _như_ after an adjective.

- tốt như – as good as
- đẹp như – as beautiful as
- rẻ như – as cheap as

Như is pronounced like _nyew_ where _ư_ is like a French u.

## Comparatives: How to say “more” or “better” in Vietnamese?

In English, the construction “more [adjective]” can sometimes use the comparative-word “more” (such as “more beautiful”) or sometimes the adjective ends in “-er”, like “bett_er_” instead of “more good”, and “larg_er_” instead of “more big”.

In Vietnamese, the grammar of such comparatives is much simpler: **one places _hơn_ after an adjective** to make it more of something. There is no “better”, only “good **more**” (tốt **hơn**).

- tốt hơn – better
- đẹp hơn – more beautiful
- rẻ hơn – cheaper

> **RELATED**: how to say [a little bit](https://vietnamdaily.ca/language/how-to-say-a-little-bit-in-vietnamese/) and a [little more](https://vietnamdaily.ca/language/how-to-say-a-little-bit-in-vietnamese/) in Vietnamese.

## Superlatives: How to say “most” or “best” in Vietnamese?

Some superlative-adjectives in English can end in “-est” to convey “most something” (such as larg_est_ or b_est_) while other adjectives require the word “most” and cannot end in “-est”.

In Vietnamese, **one simply adds the word _nhất_** (pronounced like _nyut_) after an adjective, in order to make it the “most something”. There is no “best” — only “good **most**” (tốt **nhất**). According to this ordering, “most beautiful” is literally translated as “beautiful most”.

- tốt nhất – the best
- đẹp nhất – the most beautiful
- rẻ nhất – the cheapest

# Vietnamese adjectives

In this lesson, we’re going to learn about the usage of _adjectives in Vietnamese_. As the primary role of adjectives is to modify nouns, it’s quite important that you have finished the [lesson on nouns](https://yourvietnamese.com/learn-vietnamese/vietnamese-nouns/) before this lesson.

### Position of Vietnamese Adjectives

If you can still recall from the lesson on Vietnamese sentence structure, you have learned that adjectives are put after the nouns they modify. For instance, _I bought this interesting book yesterday_ is translated into _I bought book interesting this yesterday_.

Example:

|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Original English sentence|I bought this interesting book yesterday.|   |   |   |   |   |
|Rearanged for translation|I|bought|book|interesting|this|yesterday|
|Vietnamese translation|Tôi|mua|quyển sách|thú vị|này|hôm qua|

We’ve learned in the [lesson on Nouns](https://yourvietnamese.com/learn-vietnamese/vietnamese-nouns/) that _this_ is positioned after the nouns it modifies in Vietnamese. Now, with the presence of adjectives, the adjective and the noun forms a noun phrase and _này_(“this”) is therefore put after the adjective. So, a small formula to summarise this is:

#### Position of Adjectives in Vietnamese

[Measure word](https://yourvietnamese.com/learn-vietnamese/vietnamese-nouns/#measure-words) + Noun + Adjectives + _này_(“this”)/_kia_(“that”)

Let’s now capitalise on this knowledge about positions of adjectives to translate the phrase _this book cover_. Given that _cover_ translates into _bìa_ and we have already known that _book_ translates into _sách_, _this_ translates into _này_, what’s your translation for the phrase?

If your translation is _sách bìa này_ or _quyển sách bìa này_ or the likes, I believe you understand the materials well so far although it’s not the correct answer yet. Let’s ask a couple of questions to clarify the translation process: what’s the main noun in this phrase? In other words, are we talking about book or cover? It’s _cover_, right? Then we need to find out the measure word for this principal noun. It’s _cái_.

The next question: _book_ functions like an adjective in that it modifies the main noun _cover_, doesn’t it? Then, our formula right above gives us the following translation:

Translation:

|   |   |   |   |
|---|---|---|---|
|Measure word|“cover”|“book”|“this”|
|Cái|bìa|sách|này|

Everything is clear so far? …Let’s move on to talk about inflections on adjectives.

### Inflections on Vietnamese Adjectives

One of the most interesting aspect of adjectives in English is that they can change meaning through inflections.

For example, the adjective _happy_ can be negated by adding the prefix _un-_ to form the negative-meaning word _unhappy_; the meaning of _honest_ can be reverted through the use of the prefix _dis-_ to form _dishonest_.

In Vietnamese, however, this is not possible for adjectives, and other types of words as well.

But there should be no issue with translating _unhappy_ into Vietnamese as we can simply translate it as _not happy_.

How about transforming adjectives into nouns, as in the noun _happiness_, which is derived by adding the suffix -ness to the adjective _happy?_

As there is no inflection whatsoever on Vietnamese words, we can’t apply a similar transformation. The way to make adjectives become nouns in Vietnamese is to add in front of them an appropriate “adj-to-noun” transformers such as _niềm_, _nỗi_, _sự_, etc. In our example, the word for _happy_ is _niềm_ so that _happiness_ is translated into _niềm hạnh phúc_.

To clarify the role of these transformers, consider the following mapping:

|   |   |
|---|---|
|niềm|hạnh phúc|
|-ness|happy|

This table clarifies that transformers such as “niềm”, “nỗi”, “cái”, “điều”, “sự”, … by themselves don’t have any meaning. They only transform the following word into the correct part-of-speech to follow the grammar.

The difficulty here is that you need to learn which “transformer” is used for which kinds of adjectives. The good news (or bad news?) is that for most of the cases, an adjective can accept many different “transformers”: so remembering one of them will do.

How about the suffix _-ly_ that is added to many adjectives to make them become adverbs as in _happily_, _quickly_?

The answer is short and simple: no change is needed to make adjectives become adverbs in Vietnamese! That is to say that _hạnh phúc_(“happy”) can be used as both an adjective (“happy”) and an adverb (“happily”).